docs/src/wallet-guide/ledger-live.md, before:

# Ledger Live and Ledger Nano S
This document describes how to set up a
[Ledger Nano S hardware wallet](https://shop.ledger.com/products/ledger-nano-s)
with the [Ledger Live](https://www.ledger.com/ledger-live) software.

**NOTE: While Solana tools are fully integrated with the Ledger Nano S device,
and the Solana App can be installed on the Nano S using Ledger Live, adding and
managing wallet accounts currently requires use of our command-line tools.
Integration with Ledger Live to use Solana wallet accounts on Ledger Live
will be available in the future.**

Users may [use a Ledger Nano S with the Solana command
line tools](../hardware-wallets/ledger.md).

## Set up a Ledger Nano S
 - Order a [Nano S from Ledger](https://shop.ledger.com/products/ledger-nano-s)
 - Follow the instructions for device setup included in the package,
 or [Ledger's Start page](https://www.ledger.com/start/)
- [Install the latest device firmware](https://support.ledgerwallet.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002731113-Update-Ledger-Nano-S-firmware)

## Install Ledger Live
 - Install [Ledger Live desktop software](https://www.ledger.com/ledger-live/),
 or
 - Install the [Ledger Live app for iOS](https://apps.apple.com/app/id1361671700)
 or [Ledger Live for Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ledger.live).
   - Requires iOS 9.1 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.
   - Requires Android 7.0 or later.
 - Connect your Nano S to your device and follow the instructions

## Install the Solana App on your Nano S
 - Open Ledger Live
 - Currently Ledger Live needs to be in "Developer Mode"
 (Settings > Experimental Features > Developer Mode) to see our app.

 ![Enabling Developer Mode](../.gitbook/assets/ledger-live-enable-developer-mode.png)

 - Go to Manager in the app and find "Solana" in the App Catalog and
 click Install
   - Make sure your device is plugged in via USB and is unlocked with its PIN
 - You may be prompted on the Nano S to confirm the install of Solana App
 - "Solana" should now show as "Installed" in the Ledger Live Manager

 ![Installed Solana App in Manager](../.gitbook/assets/ledger-live-install-solana-app.png)

## Interact with Solana network
- To interact with your Ledger wallet on our live network, please see our
instructions on how to
[use a Ledger Nano S with the Solana command line tools](../hardware-wallets/ledger.md).

## Support

Check out our [Wallet Support Page](support.md) for ways to get help.

Commit message:

Add docs section to upgrade Solana App on Ledger Live (#10070)
automerge

docs/src/wallet-guide/ledger-live.md, after:

# Ledger Live and Ledger Nano S
This document describes how to set up a
[Ledger Nano S hardware wallet](https://shop.ledger.com/products/ledger-nano-s)
with the [Ledger Live](https://www.ledger.com/ledger-live) software.

**NOTE: While Solana tools are fully integrated with the Ledger Nano S device,
and the Solana App can be installed on the Nano S using Ledger Live, adding and
managing wallet accounts currently requires use of our command-line tools.
Integration with Ledger Live to use Solana wallet accounts on Ledger Live
will be available in the future.**

Users may [use a Ledger Nano S with the Solana command
line tools](../hardware-wallets/ledger.md).

## Set up a Ledger Nano S
 - Order a [Nano S from Ledger](https://shop.ledger.com/products/ledger-nano-s)
 - Follow the instructions for device setup included in the package,
 or [Ledger's Start page](https://www.ledger.com/start/)
- [Install the latest device firmware](https://support.ledgerwallet.com/hc/en-us/articles/360002731113-Update-Ledger-Nano-S-firmware)

## Install Ledger Live
 - Install [Ledger Live desktop software](https://www.ledger.com/ledger-live/),
 or
 - Install the [Ledger Live app for iOS](https://apps.apple.com/app/id1361671700)
 or [Ledger Live for Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ledger.live).
   - Requires iOS 9.1 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.
   - Requires Android 7.0 or later.
 - Connect your Nano S to your device and follow the instructions

## Install the Solana App on your Nano S
 - Open Ledger Live
 - Currently Ledger Live needs to be in "Developer Mode"
 (Settings > Experimental Features > Developer Mode) to see our app.

 ![Enabling Developer Mode](../.gitbook/assets/ledger-live-enable-developer-mode.png)

 - Go to Manager in the app and find "Solana" in the App Catalog and
 click Install
   - Make sure your device is plugged in via USB and is unlocked with its PIN
 - You may be prompted on the Nano S to confirm the install of Solana App
 - "Solana" should now show as "Installed" in the Ledger Live Manager

 ![Installed Solana App in Manager](../.gitbook/assets/ledger-live-latest-version-installed.png)

## Upgrade to the latest version of the Solana App
To make sure you have the latest functionality, if you are using an older version
of the Solana App, please upgrade to version v0.2.2 by following these steps.

 - Connect your Nano S to your computer an unlock it by entering your PIN on the
 device
 - Open Ledger Live and click on "Manager" in the left pane
 - On your Nano S, click both buttons when prompted to "Allow Manager"
 - Click the "Update All" button to update the Solana app to the latest version
 (v.0.2.2)

 ![Upgrade All button in Manager](../.gitbook/assets/ledger-live-update-available-v0.2.2.png)

 - Once the upgrade is finished, confirm v0.2.2 is installed under "Apps Installed"

 ![Upgrade complete](../.gitbook/assets/ledger-live-latest-version-installed.png)

## Interact with Solana network
- To interact with your Ledger wallet on our live network, please see our
instructions on how to
[use a Ledger Nano S with the Solana command line tools](../hardware-wallets/ledger.md).

## Support

Check out our [Wallet Support Page](support.md) for ways to get help.
