book/src/running-validator/validator-software.md, before:

# Installing the Validator Software

## Bootstrap with `solana-install`

The `solana-install` tool can be used to easily install and upgrade the validator software on Linux x86\_64 and mac OS systems.

```bash
curl -sSf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/solana-labs/solana/v0.18.0/install/solana-install-init.sh | sh -s
```

Alternatively build the `solana-install` program from source and run the following command to obtain the same result:

```bash
solana-install init
```

After a successful install, `solana-install update` may be used to easily update the cluster software to a newer version at any time.

## Download Prebuilt Binaries

If you would rather not use `solana-install` to manage the install, you can manually download and install the binaries.

### Linux

Download the binaries by navigating to [https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases/latest](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases/latest), download **solana-release-x86\_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.bz2**, then extract the archive:

```bash
tar jxf solana-release-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.bz2
cd solana-release/
export PATH=$PWD/bin:$PATH
```

### mac OS

Download the binaries by navigating to [https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases/latest](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases/latest), download **solana-release-x86\_64-apple-darwin.tar.bz2**, then extract the archive:

```bash
tar jxf solana-release-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.bz2
cd solana-release/
export PATH=$PWD/bin:$PATH
```

## Build From Source

If you are unable to use the prebuilt binaries or prefer to build it yourself from source, navigate to [https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases/latest](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases/latest), and download the **Source Code** archive. Extract the code and build the binaries with:

```bash
./scripts/cargo-install-all.sh .
export PATH=$PWD/bin:$PATH
```

Commit message:

Validator docs revamp part 1 (#7171)
* Validator Docs revamp part 1

* Notes from @CriesofCarrots

* Fixup links and start page

* Update versions

book/src/running-validator/validator-software.md, after:

# Installing the Validator Software

Install the Solana release [v0.21.0](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases/tag/v0.21.0) on your machine by running:

```bash
curl -sSf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/solana-labs/solana/v0.21.0/install/solana-install-init.sh | sh -s - 0.21.0
```

The following output indicates a successful update:

```text
looking for latest release
downloading v0.21.0 installer
Configuration: /home/solana/.config/solana/install/config.yml
Active release directory: /home/solana/.local/share/solana/install/active_release
* Release version: 0.21.0
* Release URL: https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases/download/v0.21.0/solana-release-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.bz2
Update successful
```

After a successful install, `solana-install update` may be used to easily update the cluster software to a newer version at any time.

## Download Prebuilt Binaries

If you would rather not use `solana-install` to manage the install, you can manually download and install the binaries.

### Linux

Download the binaries by navigating to [https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases/latest](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases/latest), download **solana-release-x86\_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.bz2**, then extract the archive:

```bash
tar jxf solana-release-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.bz2
cd solana-release/
export PATH=$PWD/bin:$PATH
```

### macOS

Download the binaries by navigating to [https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases/latest](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases/latest), download **solana-release-x86\_64-apple-darwin.tar.bz2**, then extract the archive:

```bash
tar jxf solana-release-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.bz2
cd solana-release/
export PATH=$PWD/bin:$PATH
```

## Build From Source

If you are unable to use the prebuilt binaries or prefer to build it yourself from source, navigate to [https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases/latest](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases/latest), and download the **Source Code** archive. Extract the code and build the binaries with:

```bash
./scripts/cargo-install-all.sh .
export PATH=$PWD/bin:$PATH
```

You can then run the following command to obtain the same result as with prebuilt binaries:

```bash
solana-install init
```
