book/src/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started

The Solana git repository contains all the scripts you might need to spin up your
own local testnet. Depending on what you're looking to achieve, you may want to
run a different variation, as the full-fledged, performance-enhanced
multinode testnet is considerably more complex to set up than a Rust-only,
singlenode testnode.  If you are looking to develop high-level features, such
as experimenting with smart contracts, save yourself some setup headaches and
stick to the Rust-only singlenode demo.  If you're doing performance optimization
of the transaction pipeline, consider the enhanced singlenode demo. If you're
doing consensus work, you'll need at least a Rust-only multinode demo. If you want
to reproduce our TPS metrics, run the enhanced multinode demo.

For all four variations, you'd need the latest Rust toolchain and the Solana
source code:

First, install Rust's package manager Cargo.

```bash
$ curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh
$ source $HOME/.cargo/env
```

Now checkout the code from github:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/solana-labs/solana.git
$ cd solana
```

The demo code is sometimes broken between releases as we add new low-level
features, so if this is your first time running the demo, you'll improve
your odds of success if you check out the
[latest release](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases)
before proceeding:

```bash
$ TAG=$(git describe --tags $(git rev-list --tags --max-count=1))
$ git checkout $TAG
```

### Configuration Setup

Ensure important programs such as the vote program are built before any
nodes are started
```bash
$ cargo build --all
```

The network is initialized with a genesis ledger and fullnode configuration files.
These files can be generated by running the following script.

```bash
$ ./multinode-demo/setup.sh
```

### Drone

In order for the fullnodes and clients to work, we'll need to
spin up a drone to give out some test tokens.  The drone delivers Milton
Friedman-style "air drops" (free tokens to requesting clients) to be used in
test transactions.

Start the drone with:

```bash
$ ./multinode-demo/drone.sh
```

### Singlenode Testnet

Before you start a fullnode, make sure you know the IP address of the machine you
want to be the bootstrap leader for the demo, and make sure that udp ports 8000-10000 are
open on all the machines you want to test with.

Now start the bootstrap leader in a separate shell:

```bash
$ ./multinode-demo/bootstrap-leader.sh
```

Wait a few seconds for the server to initialize. It will print "leader ready..." when it's ready to
receive transactions. The leader will request some tokens from the drone if it doesn't have any.
The drone does not need to be running for subsequent leader starts.

### Multinode Testnet

To run a multinode testnet, after starting a leader node, spin up some
additional full nodes in separate shells:

```bash
$ ./multinode-demo/fullnode-x.sh
```

To run a performance-enhanced full node on Linux,
[CUDA 10.0](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads) must be installed on
your system:

```bash
$ ./fetch-perf-libs.sh
$ SOLANA_CUDA=1 ./multinode-demo/bootstrap-leader.sh
$ SOLANA_CUDA=1 ./multinode-demo/fullnode-x.sh
```

### Testnet Client Demo

Now that your singlenode or multinode testnet is up and running let's send it
some transactions!

In a separate shell start the client:

```bash
$ ./multinode-demo/client.sh # runs against localhost by default
```

What just happened? The client demo spins up several threads to send 500,000 transactions
to the testnet as quickly as it can. The client then pings the testnet periodically to see
how many transactions it processed in that time. Take note that the demo intentionally
floods the network with UDP packets, such that the network will almost certainly drop a
bunch of them. This ensures the testnet has an opportunity to reach 710k TPS. The client
demo completes after it has convinced itself the testnet won't process any additional
transactions. You should see several TPS measurements printed to the screen. In the
multinode variation, you'll see TPS measurements for each validator node as well.

### Testnet Debugging

There are some useful debug messages in the code, you can enable them on a per-module and per-level
basis.  Before running a leader or validator set the normal RUST\_LOG environment variable.

For example

* To enable `info` everywhere and `debug` only in the solana::banking_stage module:

  ```bash
  $ export RUST_LOG=solana=info,solana::banking_stage=debug
  ```

* To enable BPF program logging:

  ```bash
  $ export RUST_LOG=solana_bpf_loader=trace
  ```

Generally we are using `debug` for infrequent debug messages, `trace` for potentially frequent
messages and `info` for performance-related logging.

You can also attach to a running process with GDB.  The leader's process is named
_solana-fullnode_:

```bash
$ sudo gdb
attach <PID>
set logging on
thread apply all bt
```

This will dump all the threads stack traces into gdb.txt

## Public Testnet

In this example the client connects to our public testnet. To run validators on the testnet you would need to open udp ports `8000-10000`.

```bash
$ ./multinode-demo/client.sh --entrypoint testnet.solana.com:8001 --duration 60
```

You can observe the effects of your client's transactions on our [dashboard](https://metrics.solana.com:3000/d/testnet/testnet-hud?orgId=2&from=now-30m&to=now&refresh=5s&var-testnet=testnet)

Commit message:

Rename solana-fullnode to solana-validator (#4411)

book/src/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started

The Solana git repository contains all the scripts you might need to spin up your
own local testnet. Depending on what you're looking to achieve, you may want to
run a different variation, as the full-fledged, performance-enhanced
multinode testnet is considerably more complex to set up than a Rust-only,
singlenode testnode.  If you are looking to develop high-level features, such
as experimenting with smart contracts, save yourself some setup headaches and
stick to the Rust-only singlenode demo.  If you're doing performance optimization
of the transaction pipeline, consider the enhanced singlenode demo. If you're
doing consensus work, you'll need at least a Rust-only multinode demo. If you want
to reproduce our TPS metrics, run the enhanced multinode demo.

For all four variations, you'd need the latest Rust toolchain and the Solana
source code:

First, install Rust's package manager Cargo.

```bash
$ curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh
$ source $HOME/.cargo/env
```

Now checkout the code from github:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/solana-labs/solana.git
$ cd solana
```

The demo code is sometimes broken between releases as we add new low-level
features, so if this is your first time running the demo, you'll improve
your odds of success if you check out the
[latest release](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/releases)
before proceeding:

```bash
$ TAG=$(git describe --tags $(git rev-list --tags --max-count=1))
$ git checkout $TAG
```

### Configuration Setup

Ensure important programs such as the vote program are built before any
nodes are started
```bash
$ cargo build --all
```

The network is initialized with a genesis ledger generated by running the
following script.

```bash
$ ./multinode-demo/setup.sh
```

### Drone

In order for the fullnodes and clients to work, we'll need to
spin up a drone to give out some test tokens.  The drone delivers Milton
Friedman-style "air drops" (free tokens to requesting clients) to be used in
test transactions.

Start the drone with:

```bash
$ ./multinode-demo/drone.sh
```

### Singlenode Testnet

Before you start a validator, make sure you know the IP address of the machine you
want to be the bootstrap leader for the demo, and make sure that udp ports 8000-10000 are
open on all the machines you want to test with.

Now start the bootstrap leader in a separate shell:

```bash
$ ./multinode-demo/bootstrap-leader.sh
```

Wait a few seconds for the server to initialize. It will print "leader ready..." when it's ready to
receive transactions. The leader will request some tokens from the drone if it doesn't have any.
The drone does not need to be running for subsequent leader starts.

### Multinode Testnet

To run a multinode testnet, after starting a leader node, spin up some
additional validators in separate shells:

```bash
$ ./multinode-demo/validator-x.sh
```

To run a performance-enhanced full node on Linux,
[CUDA 10.0](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads) must be installed on
your system:

```bash
$ ./fetch-perf-libs.sh
$ SOLANA_CUDA=1 ./multinode-demo/bootstrap-leader.sh
$ SOLANA_CUDA=1 ./multinode-demo/validator.sh
```

### Testnet Client Demo

Now that your singlenode or multinode testnet is up and running let's send it
some transactions!

In a separate shell start the client:

```bash
$ ./multinode-demo/client.sh # runs against localhost by default
```

What just happened? The client demo spins up several threads to send 500,000 transactions
to the testnet as quickly as it can. The client then pings the testnet periodically to see
how many transactions it processed in that time. Take note that the demo intentionally
floods the network with UDP packets, such that the network will almost certainly drop a
bunch of them. This ensures the testnet has an opportunity to reach 710k TPS. The client
demo completes after it has convinced itself the testnet won't process any additional
transactions. You should see several TPS measurements printed to the screen. In the
multinode variation, you'll see TPS measurements for each validator node as well.

### Testnet Debugging

There are some useful debug messages in the code, you can enable them on a per-module and per-level
basis.  Before running a leader or validator set the normal RUST\_LOG environment variable.

For example

* To enable `info` everywhere and `debug` only in the solana::banking_stage module:

  ```bash
  $ export RUST_LOG=solana=info,solana::banking_stage=debug
  ```

* To enable BPF program logging:

  ```bash
  $ export RUST_LOG=solana_bpf_loader=trace
  ```

Generally we are using `debug` for infrequent debug messages, `trace` for potentially frequent
messages and `info` for performance-related logging.

You can also attach to a running process with GDB.  The leader's process is named
_solana-validator_:

```bash
$ sudo gdb
attach <PID>
set logging on
thread apply all bt
```

This will dump all the threads stack traces into gdb.txt

## Public Testnet

In this example the client connects to our public testnet. To run validators on the testnet you would need to open udp ports `8000-10000`.

```bash
$ ./multinode-demo/client.sh --entrypoint testnet.solana.com:8001 --duration 60
```

You can observe the effects of your client's transactions on our [dashboard](https://metrics.solana.com:3000/d/testnet/testnet-hud?orgId=2&from=now-30m&to=now&refresh=5s&var-testnet=testnet)
