book/src/programs.md, before:

# Programming Model

A client *app* interacts with a Solana cluster by sending it *transactions*
with one or more *instructions*. The Solana *runtime* passes those instructions
to user-contributed *programs*. An instruction might, for example, tell a
program to transfer *lamports* from one *account* to another or create an interactive
contract that governs how lamports are transfered. Instructions are executed
atomically. If any instruction is invalid, any changes made within the
transaction are discarded.

## Deploying Programs to a Cluster

<img alt="SDK tools" src="img/sdk-tools.svg" class="center"/>

As shown in the diagram above a client creates a program and compiles it to an
ELF shared object containing BPF bytecode and sends it to the Solana cluster.
The cluster stores the program locally and makes it available to clients via a
*program ID*. The program ID is a *public key* generated by the client and is
used to reference the program in subsequent transactions.

A program may be written in any programming language that can target the
Berkley Packet Filter (BPF) safe execution environment. The Solana SDK offers
the best support for C programs, which is compiled to BPF using the [LLVM
compiler infrastructure](https://llvm.org).

## Storing State between Transactions

If the program needs to store state between transactions, it does so using
*accounts*. Accounts are similar to files in operating systems such as Linux.
Like a file, an account may hold arbitrary data and that data persists beyond
the lifetime of a program. Also like a file, an account includes metadata that
tells the runtime who is allowed to access the data and how. Unlike a file, the
account includes metadata for the lifetime of the file. That lifetime is
expressed in "tokens", which is a number of fractional native tokens, called
*lamports*. Accounts are held in validator memory and pay "rent" to stay there.
Each fullnode periodically scan all accounts and collects rent. Any account
that drops to zero lamports is purged.

If an account is marked "executable", it will only be used by a *loader* to run
programs. For example, a BPF-compiled program is marked executable and loaded
by the BPF loader. No program is allowed to modify the contents of an
executable account.

An account also includes "owner" metadata. The owner is a program ID. The
runtime grants the program write access to the account if its ID matches the
owner. If an account is not owned by a program, the program is permitted to
read its data and credit the account.

In the same way that a Linux user uses a path to look up a file, a Solana
client uses public keys to look up accounts. To create an account, the client
generates a *keypair* and registers its public key using the CreateAccount
instruction. Once registered, transactions reference account keys to grant
programs access to accounts. The runtime grants programs read access by
default. To grant write access, the client must either assign the account to a
program or sign the transaction using the keypair's *secret key*. Since only
the holder of the secret key can produce valid signatures matching the
account's public key, the runtime recognizes the signature as authorization to
modify account data or debit the account.

After the runtime executes each of the transaction's instructions, it uses the
account metadata and transaction signatures to verify that none of the access
rules were violated. If a program violates an access rule, the runtime discards
all account changes made by all instructions and marks the transaction as
failed.

Commit message:

Clarify runtime vs program rules (#5934)
* Clarify runtime vs program rules

And define "smart contract"

* Apply review feedback

* Rename secret key to private key

* Rename pubkey to public key in book

"pubkey" is a great shorthand in code, but it's not common in the
industry or something we want to spend time explaining to users.

book/src/programs.md, after:

# Programming Model

A client *app* interacts with a Solana cluster by sending it *transactions*
with one or more *instructions*. The Solana *runtime* passes those instructions
to user-contributed *programs*. An instruction might, for example, tell a
program to transfer *lamports* from one *account* to another or create an interactive
contract that governs how lamports are transfered. Instructions are executed
atomically. If any instruction is invalid, any changes made within the
transaction are discarded.

## Deploying Programs to a Cluster

<img alt="SDK tools" src="img/sdk-tools.svg" class="center"/>

As shown in the diagram above a client creates a program and compiles it to an
ELF shared object containing BPF bytecode and sends it to the Solana cluster.
The cluster stores the program locally and makes it available to clients via a
*program ID*. The program ID is a *public key* generated by the client and is
used to reference the program in subsequent transactions.

A program may be written in any programming language that can target the
Berkley Packet Filter (BPF) safe execution environment. The Solana SDK offers
the best support for C programs, which is compiled to BPF using the [LLVM
compiler infrastructure](https://llvm.org).

## Storing State between Transactions

If the program needs to store state between transactions, it does so using
*accounts*. Accounts are similar to files in operating systems such as Linux.
Like a file, an account may hold arbitrary data and that data persists beyond
the lifetime of a program. Also like a file, an account includes metadata that
tells the runtime who is allowed to access the data and how. Unlike a file, the
account includes metadata for the lifetime of the file. That lifetime is
expressed in "tokens", which is a number of fractional native tokens, called
*lamports*. Accounts are held in validator memory and pay "rent" to stay there.
Each fullnode periodically scan all accounts and collects rent. Any account
that drops to zero lamports is purged.

If an account is marked "executable", it will only be used by a *loader* to run
programs. For example, a BPF-compiled program is marked executable and loaded
by the BPF loader. No program is allowed to modify the contents of an
executable account.

An account also includes "owner" metadata. The owner is a program ID. The
runtime grants the program write access to the account if its ID matches the
owner. If an account is not owned by a program, the program is permitted to
read its data and credit the account.

In the same way that a Linux user uses a path to look up a file, a Solana
client uses public keys to look up accounts. To create an account, the client
generates a *keypair* and registers its public key using the `CreateAccount`
instruction. The account created by `CreateAccount` is called a *system
account* and is owned by a built-in program called the System program. The
System program allows clients to transfer lamports and assign account
ownership.

The runtime only permits the owner to debit the account or modify its data. The
program then defines additional rules for whether the client can modify
accounts it owns. In the case of the System program, it allows users to
transfer lamports by recognizing transaction signatures. If it sees the client
signed the transaction using the keypair's *private key*, it knows the client
authorized the token transfer.

After the runtime executes each of the transaction's instructions, it uses the
account metadata to verify that none of the access rules were violated. If a
program violates an access rule, the runtime discards all account changes made
by all instructions and marks the transaction as failed.

## Smart Contracts

Programs don't always require transaction signatures, as the System program
does. Instead, the program may manage *smart contracts*. A smart contract is a
set of constraints that once satisfied, signal to a program that a token
transfer or account update is permitted. For example, one could use the Budget
program to create a smart contract that authorizes a token transfer only after
some date. Once evidence that the date has past, the contract progresses, and
token transfer completes.
