book/src/testing-programs.md, before:

## Testing Programs

Applications send transactions to a Solana cluster and query validators to
confirm the transactions were processed and to check each transaction's result.
When the cluster doesn't behave as anticipated, it could be for a number of
reasons:

* The program is buggy
* The BPF loader rejected an unsafe program instruction
* The transaction was too big
* The transaction was invalid
* The Runtime tried to execute the transaction when another one was accessing
  the same account
* The network dropped the transaction
* The cluster rolled back the ledger
* A validator responded to queries maliciously

### The Transact Trait

To troubleshoot, the application should retarget a lower-level component, where
fewer errors are possible. Retargeting can be done with different
implementations of the Transact trait.

When Futures 0.3.0 is released, the Transact trait may look like this:

```rust,ignore
trait Transact {
    async fn send_transactions(txs: &[Transaction]) -> Vec<Result<(), TransactionError>>;
}
```

Users send transactions and asynchrounously await their results.

#### Transact with Clusters

The highest level implementation targets a Solana cluster, which may be a
deployed testnet or a local cluster running on a development machine.

#### Transact with the TPU

The next level is the TPU implementation of Transact. At the TPU level, the
application sends transactions over Rust channels, where there can be no
surprises from network queues or dropped packets. The TPU implements all
"normal" transaction errors. It does signature verification, may report
account-in-use errors, and otherwise results in the ledger, complete with proof
of history hashes.

### Low-level testing

### Testing with the Bank

Below the TPU level is the Bank. The Bank doesn't do signature verification or
generate a ledger. The Bank is a convenient layer at which to test new on-chain
programs. It allows developers to toggle between native program implementations
and BPF-compiled variants. No need for the Transact trait here. The Bank's API
is synchronous.

### Unit-testing with the Runtime

Below the Bank is the Runtime. The Runtime is the ideal test environment for
unit-testing. By statically linking the Runtime into a native program
implementation, the developer gains the shortest possible edit-compile-run
loop. Without any dynamic linking, stack traces include debug symbols and
program errors are straightforward to troubleshoot.

Commit message:

Move Transact proposal to implemented (#4055)
And update names to reflect what was implemented.

book/src/testing-programs.md, after:

## Testing Programs

Applications send transactions to a Solana cluster and query validators to
confirm the transactions were processed and to check each transaction's result.
When the cluster doesn't behave as anticipated, it could be for a number of
reasons:

* The program is buggy
* The BPF loader rejected an unsafe program instruction
* The transaction was too big
* The transaction was invalid
* The Runtime tried to execute the transaction when another one was accessing
  the same account
* The network dropped the transaction
* The cluster rolled back the ledger
* A validator responded to queries maliciously

### The AsyncClient and SyncClient Traits

To troubleshoot, the application should retarget a lower-level component, where
fewer errors are possible. Retargeting can be done with different
implementations of the AsyncClient and SyncClient traits.

Components implement the following primary methods:

```rust,ignore
trait AsyncClient {
    fn async_send_transaction(&self, transaction: Transaction) -> io::Result<Signature>;
}

trait SyncClient {
    fn get_signature_status(&self, signature: &Signature) -> Result<Option<transaction::Result<()>>>;
}
```

Users send transactions and asynchrounously and synchrounously await results.

#### ThinClient for Clusters

The highest level implementation, ThinClient, targets a Solana cluster, which
may be a deployed testnet or a local cluster running on a development machine.

#### TpuClient for the TPU

The next level is the TPU implementation, which is not yet implemented. At the
TPU level, the application sends transactions over Rust channels, where there
can be no surprises from network queues or dropped packets. The TPU implements
all "normal" transaction errors. It does signature verification, may report
account-in-use errors, and otherwise results in the ledger, complete with proof
of history hashes.

### Low-level testing

#### BankClient for the Bank

Below the TPU level is the Bank. The Bank doesn't do signature verification or
generate a ledger. The Bank is a convenient layer at which to test new on-chain
programs. It allows developers to toggle between native program implementations
and BPF-compiled variants. No need for the Transact trait here. The Bank's API
is synchronous.

### Unit-testing with the Runtime

Below the Bank is the Runtime. The Runtime is the ideal test environment for
unit-testing. By statically linking the Runtime into a native program
implementation, the developer gains the shortest possible edit-compile-run
loop. Without any dynamic linking, stack traces include debug symbols and
program errors are straightforward to troubleshoot.
