book/src/transaction-fees.md, before:

# Deterministic Transaction Fees

Transactions currently include a fee field that indicates the maximum fee field
a slot leader is permitted to charge to process a transaction. The cluster, on
the other hand, agrees on a minimum fee. If the network is congested, the slot
leader may prioritize the transactions offering higher fees. That means the
client won't know how much was collected until the transaction is confirmed by
the cluster and the remaining balance is checked. It smells of exactly what we
dislike about Ethereum's "gas", non-determinism.

## Implementation Status

This design is not yet implemented, but is written as though it has been.  Once
implemented, delete this comment.

### Congestion-driven fees

Each validator uses *signatures per slot* (SPS) to estimate network congestion
and *SPS target* to estimate the desired processing capacity of the cluster.
The validator learns the SPS target from the genesis block, whereas it
calculates SPS from the ledger data in the previous epoch.

### Calculating fees

The client uses the JSON RPC API to query the cluster for the current fee
parameters.  Those parameters are tagged with a blockhash and remain valid
until that blockhash is old enough to be rejected by the slot leader.

Before sending a transaction to the cluster, a client may submit the
transaction and fee account data to an SDK module called the *fee calculator*.
So long as the client's SDK version matches the slot leader's version, the
client is assured that its account will be changed exactly the same number of
lamports as returned by the fee calculator.

### Fee Parameters

In the first implementation of this design, the only fee parameter is
`lamports_per_signature`. The more signatures the cluster needs to verify, the
higher the fee. The exact number of lamports is determined by the ratio of SPS
to the SPS target. The cluster lowers `lamports_per_signature` when SPS is
below the target and raises it when at or above the target.

Future parameters might include:

* `lamports_per_pubkey` - cost to load an account
* `lamports_per_slot_distance` - higher cost to load very old accounts
* `lamports_per_byte` - cost per size of account loaded
* `lamports_per_bpf_instruction` - cost to run a program

### Attacks

#### Hijacking the SPS Target

A group of validators can centralize the cluster if they can convince it to
raise the SPS Target above a point where the rest of the validators can keep
up. Raising the target will cause fees to drop, presumably creating more demand
and therefore higher TPS. If the validator doesn't have hardware that can
process that many transactions that fast, its confirmation votes will
eventually get so long that the cluster will be forced to boot it.

Commit message:

Make lamports_per_signature dynamic based on cluster load (#4562)
* Make lamports_per_signature dynamic based on cluster load

* Move transaction-fees.md to implemented

book/src/transaction-fees.md, after:

# Deterministic Transaction Fees

Transactions currently include a fee field that indicates the maximum fee field
a slot leader is permitted to charge to process a transaction. The cluster, on
the other hand, agrees on a minimum fee. If the network is congested, the slot
leader may prioritize the transactions offering higher fees. That means the
client won't know how much was collected until the transaction is confirmed by
the cluster and the remaining balance is checked. It smells of exactly what we
dislike about Ethereum's "gas", non-determinism.

### Congestion-driven fees

Each validator uses *signatures per slot* (SPS) to estimate network congestion
and *SPS target* to estimate the desired processing capacity of the cluster.
The validator learns the SPS target from the genesis block, whereas it
calculates SPS from recently processed transactions.  The genesis block also
defines a target `lamports_per_signature`, which is the fee to charge per
signature when the cluster is operating at *SPS target*.

### Calculating fees

The client uses the JSON RPC API to query the cluster for the current fee
parameters.  Those parameters are tagged with a blockhash and remain valid
until that blockhash is old enough to be rejected by the slot leader.

Before sending a transaction to the cluster, a client may submit the
transaction and fee account data to an SDK module called the *fee calculator*.
So long as the client's SDK version matches the slot leader's version, the
client is assured that its account will be changed exactly the same number of
lamports as returned by the fee calculator.

### Fee Parameters

In the first implementation of this design, the only fee parameter is
`lamports_per_signature`. The more signatures the cluster needs to verify, the
higher the fee. The exact number of lamports is determined by the ratio of SPS
to the SPS target. At the end of each slot, the cluster lowers
`lamports_per_signature` when SPS is below the target and raises it when above
the target.  The minimum value for `lamports_per_signature` is 50% of the target
`lamports_per_signature` and the maximum value is 10x the target
`lamports_per_signature'

Future parameters might include:

* `lamports_per_pubkey` - cost to load an account
* `lamports_per_slot_distance` - higher cost to load very old accounts
* `lamports_per_byte` - cost per size of account loaded
* `lamports_per_bpf_instruction` - cost to run a program

### Attacks

#### Hijacking the SPS Target

A group of validators can centralize the cluster if they can convince it to
raise the SPS Target above a point where the rest of the validators can keep
up. Raising the target will cause fees to drop, presumably creating more demand
and therefore higher TPS. If the validator doesn't have hardware that can
process that many transactions that fast, its confirmation votes will
eventually get so long that the cluster will be forced to boot it.
